ABSTRACT





Effective decisions are mandatory for any company to generate good revenue. These days competition is huge and all companies are moving forward with their own different strategies. We should use data and make a proper decision. Every person is different from one another and we don’t know what he/she buys or what their likes are. But, with the help of machine learning techniques one can sort out the data and can find the target group by applying several algorithms to the dataset. Without this, It will be very difficult and no better techniques are available to find the group of people with similar character and interests in a large dataset. Here, customer segmentation using K- Means clustering helps to group the data with the same attributes which exactly helps to business the best. We are going to use the elbow method to find the number of clusters and at last, we visualize the data. Market Segmentation is the process of dividing customers into groups based on common characteristics so companies can market to each group effectively and appropriately. Customers are segmented according to their similarities in behavior and habits. Our goal is to segment their customers given the customer’s various behaviors and features, in order for the company to be able to market for each segment in a manner that is more fitting to each individual customer. Market Segmentation is one of the most important applications of unsupervised learning. Using clustering techniques, companies can identify several segments of customers allowing them to target the potential user base. In this machine learning project, we will make use of K-means clustering which is the essential algorithm for clustering unlabeled datasets.The main objective is to develop a Customer Segmentation to give recommendations like saving plans, loans, and wealth management on target groups. Finally, we will create a streamlet application based on the clustering technique, where we are taking the customer details and identifying which cluster the customer belongs to.
